2-7-2015

First week to work on the Project 20%.
I have decided that Java would be the most appropriate language for my project;
I am very familiar with Java and can write Java better than any other programming language.
So far, I've worked on some prototypes that may be potentially used in my project.
One of the prototypes is a program that uses JFrame, Graphics, ActionListener, and KeyListener.
It shows a window with a ball at the top left corner, which can be moved by using the arrow keys.
The ball however can be moved out of the window, and does not stop when the user released the arrow key.
And the second prototype is not fully functional, but I attempted to make a window(sort of like Command Prompt),
where the user can type in some command to make the computer respond to it. It doesn't work fully currently,
but the basic shape and functions are working. Next week, I am planning to work on it a little bit more,
and hopefully fix it.

2-14-2015

I have been developing the Java programs more.
Java's graphics were very tricky to use, and very hard to design the program as I visualized at first.
I am trying to gain as much information as I could possibly get out of the Internet, and guide videos.
Recent program that I worked on, was trying to see if the physic's properties would apply in Java's program
such as the acceleration, velocity, normal force, etc. I am assuming that it would probably work, but yet I
need to figure out how to run multiple balls and properties, and to temporarly pause and resume. Next week,
I will finish that program and begin on some more prototypes.

2-21-2015

Third week of the development of the 20% Project. I have been developing more into the prototypes, specifically
into the graphics. I added the colors to the prototypes, Color.BLACK on the background, Color.WHITE on the object(circle).
And by using the KeyReleased() method, the object now stops whenever I release the arrow keys. It works very smoothly.
I also was studying C++ language for the case where Java doesn't really work with the project that I was imagining.
C++ was an interesting language, but I will try to keep using Java because I am more fluent in Java than C++.
Next week, I will try to work and focus on Java more, by watching Youtube and studying more.

2-28-2015

Fourth week of the development of the 20%.
I recently discovered that my prototypes are not working on a different compiler, BlueJ. (My current compiler is Eclipse Luna.)
I am concerned that my program might not work for some of the users when I published my work.
I'd have to dig Internet more to find how to prevent that.
So far I've been working on applying a physical property, acceleration onto the ball.
It seemed really easy at first, but it was very difficult to write a code for acceleration.
I, again, searched Internet and found that there were 'sensor' that I could import and use to do a lot of things.
Next week, I will dig down more and try to finalize my prototypes because next week, the second deliverable is due.

3-7-2015

This week I've turned in my second deliverable, which was some prototypes. I didn't make any significant development
on the prototypes, but I have finalized the thoughts of my product. So my product will have 2 windows; one is a status window,
in which there will be a set of status of each ball(total of 3 balls). By status I mean numerical values like velocity,
acceleration, and mass. I may add more than this, but these will be the basic status. And also the user can change these values.
The other window is the actual simulator window, where there will be 3 balls. I will set 4 walls so the balls cannot escape,
and the window size will be the exact same, so that it would look like the balls bouncing against the window's barriers.
So I summarized the product using this journal, and next week, I will be starting to make connections between the prototypes.

3-14-2015

So I've been working on the window (JFrame) in which there are some of the status of the balls, velocities,
accelerations, locations. But the work is still in progress, so I didn't upload the file yet. I am planning to finish
this and hopefully get it to work. After this, I will somehow figure how to send the data that the user put in to the graphic
window when the user presses the button. I may or may not need the help from Mr. Schreiber, when working with that.
And I will also test if Jave is capable of handling 3 balls moving at different properties at the same time. Hopefully it would.


3-21-2015

This week was a successful week. I have almost finished my status window prototype. The shape looks alright.
But there was a minor problem this week. So the canvas had a white ball originally, which was working very well.
But this week I tried putting three balls on a single window. One is red, one is blue, and the other one is white.
So the window after changing the balls started to throw some error at me. I am currently attempting to fix the error,
which I assume is going to take a while, due to my trip to California next week. After that, if I fix the canvas problem,
I will work on the connections (Users inputting data, and the canvas receiving the data).

3-28-2015

As you may know, this week was a spring break. And unfortunately(for the working progress) I was on a trip with my family.
And due to the lack of internet. I couldn't do anything on the trip excluding some editting that I did on the car. I tried to
add three balls, with colors red, blue and white, but currently it doesn't even show it on the canvas. Right now working and
testing with resources from youtube Java tutors. And lastly, for next week, I will try to get the communication between the status window
and the canvas done. And also, will test if Java is capable of handling three balls simultaneously moving around.

4-4-2015

This week was a research week, and by that being honest, I did not work on the project that much, except for adding some test
classes to analyze what the problem is. So the problem is that on my canvas(the window with three balls), I tried to put three
balls with different colors, but when I compile and run the program, it just shows nothing at all. So I've been researching
random websites(stack overflow, etc.) yet still not found the solution. Hopefully next week assuming that I will be able
to find the solution, I will then work on sending the status over to the canvas to make it show the simulation of the given
data.

4-11-2015

This week I actually accomplished a lot of things. First off, I got three balls on the canvas, one red, one
white, and one blue. The only problem is that Java cannot handle checking three balls if they are out of
bounds or not, so I am thinking about using thread, which I have never used. But otherwise they work
perfectly. And I also got the StatusWindow working, it sends the input to the canvas correctly. But here is
a major problem. I tried sending input to the canvas, but the canvas doesn't move the balls. So I tried
resizing the window, then the balls started to flicker back and forth from the initial position, to the
position that I specified in the status window. Next week, I will try to fix that problem.

4-18-2015

So I have figured out why my program is not working. I am not quite sure but I think I am supposed to use the double buffering
Double buffering prevents a Java program from making a graphic flicker. But I have no clue how to use double buffering
currently so I have to dig more and find more information about it. And my last thing that I have to finish up if I get
the double buffering done is the acceleration. I also need to research more about the acceleration because I don't think
I can write codes to simulate accelerations, and I think there will be some resources like acceleration sensors.